hello it's Ruby and today I'm going to
be talking to you all about breaks and
namely why I don't take conventional
breaks
one thing that lots of people have
commented on when it comes to my long
study days and really any study with me
which I post is that I don't take breaks
I don't take convention breaks during my
lunch break I'll usually bring my lunch
up to my desk instead of you know
sitting down watching something and
today I wanted to explain to you why I
do this and how it can actually help
with productivity now to do this I'm
going to distinguish between two types
of breaks the second of which is a kind
that I do take first of all we've got
conventional breaks these are kinds of
breaks that I think are associated
mostly with stay sessions so for example
you might watch a film or a TV show in
one of your breaks you might decide to
do some baking you might decide to see a
friend
all of these conventional breaks are
based in enjoyment they're based on
things that you really enjoy to do
obviously there's nothing wrong with
that it's good that we do things that we
love to do especially if we are spending
a lot of our time working but I think
it's problematic for us to frame these
things within study breaks because it's
not a study break it's use of free time
and I think that's a really important
distinction to make the issue with these
kinds of breaks is that we tend to treat
them like rewards you know what if I
finish this essay I will let myself
watch an episode of an with an e in my
lunch break that will definitely
motivate me to keep on working
this will definitely motivate you in the
short term but in the long term it could
have really disastrous effects for your
motivation towards your studies this is
something I speak about more in the
rewards video to go check that out if
you want to know more of the reasoning
behind this but most of nificantly it
boils down to something called the
Sawyer effect now if you're familiar
with Tom Sawyer then you will know that
he famously is painting a fence and
Huckleberry Finn comes over and taunts
him for having to spend his time
whitewashing this fence now instead of
telling him that he doesn't enjoy
painting the fence Tom Sawyer tells
Huckleberry Finn that he is having a
dandy of a time that he loves painting
events and so even though he thinks of
it as work he can
hakka - that it is play and basically by
doing so he's able to convince
Huckleberry Finn to paint the fence for
him
the really interesting thing here is
separating work and play
so Tom Sawyer is treating painting the
fence as work however he convinces his
friends that it is play now work is
typically associated with something bad
play is something good so if something's
work we are automatically not going to
want to do it to the same degree where
is this something's play we will want to
do it and as soon as we implement a
reward like watching down with an e into
our study sessions as a study break we
emphasize the fact that television is
play and thus in contrast we solidify
the fact that studying is work and since
we think that play is better than work
the issue then becomes that we distance
ourselves from work and we enjoy it last
my main issue with using breaks is that
we tend to use them as rewards instead
we want to look to this other kind of
breakage and productive breaks the best
way to frame this is 3d analogy of
sharpening your ax which i think is an
analogy that lots of people have heard
of but I'm going to just run it through
really briefly so the idea here is that
if you are a wood chopper a wood cutter
what are they called
if you cut trees down you might spend
hours cutting away with your axe but if
it's blunt the tree isn't gonna come
down it's gonna take you ages and Asian
eaters to cut through the tree however
if you take just a minute to step back
sharpen your saw and then get back to
work you are going to be more productive
and you're gonna get that tree cut down
much more quickly this is the way that
we want to treat breaks not as a reward
but it is a way to refuel I'm
replenished that's the car more
productive in the studying that we're
doing so if we want to give our brain or
our body a break arrest that's okay but
we need to make sure that it's
benefiting the rest of our study session
so I don't take any recreational breaks
but I do take these productive breaks I
only take them when I really need them
because I find that if I schedule breaks
into my study planner my timetable then
I tend to treat them more as rewards as
opposed to you replenishing breaks I
will take a break when I need a break
when my body needs it
my mind needs that and no other time I'm
not gonna take a break just for the sake
of doing it one of the main reasons for
this actually a break can also interrupt
your sense of float if you're in the
mode already if you're in the mood for
studying why should we take those five
minutes out to go sharpen it time for my
break now the really problematic thing
about a scheduled break is that it can
interrupt your sense of flow because you
could be working really really
productively and you might not need a
break to recharge and if we take a break
when we're in the state of flow we could
find ourselves coming back not without
axe sharpened but instead find ourselves
struggling to get back into that state
of flow in lots of those study sessions
that I've done I have been in a state of
flow which I consider a form of play
because it's something that I enjoy I
love that state of flow whenever we're
in that state of flow it is an enjoyable
state because we feel motivated so how
do we use breaks what should we do
during these recharging breaks which you
should try to tape obviously I listen to
my body in my mindful when I take them
but I would say on average I probably
take them then once every hour once
every two hours so breaks shouldn't be
about enjoyment they should be about
fulfillment ask yourself how is this
break going to help you to fulfill your
task when you get back
how is it going to shop in your soul
your acts are thus some good examples
or getting some food getting some tea
doing some exercise and get some fresh
air
so if you're gonna take a longer break
you don't want to do something which is
going to make you feel sluggish
afterwards and in the motivation myth
Jeff seid and outlines the benefits of
having a break where your brain is still
active so we'll brain is still thinking
as opposed to just consuming material
like watching something and thus here
are some examples of things that you can
do in a slightly longer second type of
break you can read do a crossword you
could do some journaling or write out
lists of your life goals things that you
want to do and achieve that always gets
me so motivated to keep on studying when
I get back it can be really useful to
keep a list of the things that sharpen
your axe so that when you come to a
study break you can do one of these
things which refreshes you and keeps
your brain active and working then when
you finished with your task the thing
that you wanted to get done that day you
can do something which is recreational
you can actually use some free time and
the amazing thing about delaying this
until after you finish your task is that
when you come to do it you don't feel
any guilt you won't end up
procrastinating and thus you can really
make the most of your free time as
opposed to drawing out the length of
time it takes you to complete a task and
always having on your mind I just think
it's better for self-care more generally
if we can have some time or we can
totally switch off from the things that
we need to get done so if you'll excuse
me I'm going to watch the next episode
of on with an e because I finish all of
my work for today
I could use someone on my side this is
quite the homestead you have here